add nginx connect example documentation (#1306)
hashicorp/consul-template: examples/nginx-connect-proxy.md

# NGINX as a Consul Connect ingress proxy

You can use NGINX to proxy into a Consul Connect service mesh without a sidecar
by fetching the required certificates using Consul-Template. This guide is

> based off the introductory [service mesh learn article][mesh] and, like it,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
based off the introductory [Connect Services - Service Mesh Learn guide][mesh] and, like it,
```

Author: done

reviews a simple example you can run locally. Please see the [mesh][mesh]

> introductory article for more details as this guide will just run through the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
introductory guide for more details as this guide will just run through the
```

basics to get the example running.

### Security/Techincal Note

> To follow this guide you'll need nginx, consul and consul-template installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To follow this guide you'll need Nginx, Consul and Consul-template installed.
```

Additionally the shell script requires some standard Unix CLI tools as well as
GNU Screen.

This guide is only meant to demonstrate features and many things have been

> simplified. It is not a production ready/secure way to deploy things.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
simplified, it is not a production ready or secure depolyment.
```

Each of the services below will run in the foreground and output its logs to
that console. They are designed to all run from files in the same directory.

> For convenience sake you can find a shell script to extract the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For convenience, you can find a shell script to extract the configuration
```

files and run the commands the from this document in the
examples/nginx-connect-proxy/ sub-directory. The script should be a handy
reference even if you don't want to run it directly.

## Start Consul Agent with the Services Configured

Start the consul agent in dev mode using the configuration file below for the
'webserver' and 'ingress' services.

```shell
$ consul agent -dev -log-level=info -config-file=consul-services.json
```

#### consul-services.json
```hcl
cat > consul-services.json << EOF
{
  "services": [
    {
      "name": "ingress",
      "port": 8080,
      "connect": {}
    },
    {
      "name": "webserver",
      "connect": { "sidecar_service": {} },
      "port": 8888
    }
  ]
}
EOF
```

> This contains the service definitions for both the `webserver` and the

Reviewer: I might move this explanation before the file example.

`ingress` proxy (below). The names used are important as those are how you will
refer to them later.

## Start the Webserver (a Connect-unaware Service)

> First we need a web server to proxy to and for that we'll just use NGINX as we

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you need a web server to proxy to and for that you can just use NGINX as it is
```

> already have it installed to use as a proxy. We'll configure it to just serve

Reviewer: ```suggestion
already installed to use as a proxy. Configure it to just serve
```

up static files and be able to be run by a standard user.

```shell
$ /usr/sbin/nginx -p . -c nginx-server.conf
```

### Use a Sidecar to add it to the Connect mesh network

Then start the sidecar for the `webserver` service.

```shell
$ consul connect proxy -sidecar-for webserver
```

**Note**: the argument to `-sidecar-for` needs to match the name registered
with consul in the `consul-services.json` config file above.

#### nginx-server.conf

> ```nginx

Reviewer: Are you including this example file in the repo or should the user create it?

Author: While working on the HAProxy doc I decided to use Python's included HTTP server instead of using NGINX as the web server. Doing so eliminates the need for this config file, simplifying things.

So instead of this config plus the command, it is replaced by...
`$ python -m SimpleHTTPServer`

It would still use the index.html, which I'd probably change to (like I'm using for HAproxy)... `Brought to you by NGINX!`

Author: I think I'm going to go ahead and make this change. I really don't see a downside.

cat > nginx-server.conf << EOF
daemon off;
master_process off;
pid nginx.pid;
error_log /dev/stdout;
events {}

http {
	access_log /dev/stdout;

    server {
        listen 8888 default_server;
        root .;
        index index.html;
    }
}
EOF
```

For more on the details of the NGINX configuration file, please see the [NGINX
documentation][nginx].

#### index.html

> ```html

Reviewer: Same as above.

cat > index.html << EOF
Welcome to nginx!
EOF
```

## NGINX Ingress Proxy to Web-Server via Mesh Sidecar

> Now that we have a webserver running, registered with consul with a sidecar

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have a webserver running, registered with consul with a sidecar
```

> proxy running we can register a NGINX proxy that will route traffic directly to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
proxy running, you can register a NGINX proxy that will route traffic directly to
```

the webserver's sidecar via the encrypted mesh network.

> To connect to the mesh network, we need the required TLS certificates. We'll

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To connect to the mesh network, we need the required TLS certificates. You'll
```

> need the root certificate (the CA) and the client certificates. We will use a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
need the root certificate (the CA) and the client certificates. You can use a
```

separate template for each certificate, to put each in their own file.

#### ca.crt
```liquid
cat > ca.crt.tmpl << EOF
{{range caRoots}}{{.RootCertPEM}}{{end}}
EOF
```
#### cert.pem
```liquid
cat > cert.pem.tmpl << EOF
{{with caLeaf "ingress"}}{{.CertPEM}}{{end}}
EOF
```
#### cert.key
```liquid
cat > cert.key.tmpl << EOF
{{with caLeaf "ingress"}}{{.PrivateKeyPEM}}{{end}}
EOF
```

> With all the certificate templates in place, we now just need the configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With all the certificate templates in place, you now just need the configuration
```

> file template for the NGINX proxy. It uses the `connect` template function to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
file template for the NGINX proxy, it uses the `connect` template function to
```

get all the "webserver" connect enabled services.

#### nginx-proxy.conf.tmpl
```nginx
cat > nginx-proxy.conf.tmpl << EOF
daemon off;
master_process off;
pid nginx.pid;
error_log /dev/stdout;

events {}

http {
  access_log /dev/stdout;

  server {
    listen 8080 default_server;

    location / {
{{range connect "webserver"}}
      proxy_pass https://{{.Address}}:{{.Port}};
{{end}}
      # these refer to files written by templates above
      proxy_ssl_certificate cert.pem;
      proxy_ssl_certificate_key cert.key;
      proxy_ssl_trusted_certificate ca.crt;
    }
  }
}
EOF
```

## Running the NGINX Ingress Proxy with Consul-Template

> Using the consul-template configuration below, we run the NGINX proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the consul-template configuration below, run the NGINX proxy.
```

```shell
$ consul-template -config ingress-config.hcl -log-level=info
```

> Consul-template will restart the nginx server when any of the templates are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consul-template will restart the Nginx server when any of the templates are
```

rendered (files written). Note that if multiple templates are rendered, it will
still only restart it once.

#### ingress-config.hcl
```hcl
cat > ingress-config.hcl << EOF
exec {
  command = "/usr/sbin/nginx -p . -c nginx-proxy.conf"
}
template {
  source = "ca.crt.tmpl"
  destination = "ca.crt"
}
template {
  source = "cert.pem.tmpl"
  destination = "cert.pem"
}
template {
  source = "cert.key.tmpl"
  destination = "cert.key"
}
template {
  source = "nginx-proxy.conf.tmpl"
  destination = "nginx-proxy.conf"
}
EOF
```

## Test it
```shell
$ curl http://localhost:8080
Welcome to nginx!
```

## Intentions Work

> Because the ingress service was registered with consul, you can control what

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the ingress service was registered with Consul, you can control
```

> the it is able to connect to in the mesh network with [intentions][intentions].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the services it is able to connect to within the mesh network with [intentions][intentions].
```

```shell
$ curl http://localhost:8080

> Welcome to nginx!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Welcome to nginx!

```

> $ consul intention create -deny  ingress webserver

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ consul intention create -deny  ingress webserver

```

> Created: ingress => webserver (deny)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Created: ingress => webserver (deny)

```

$ curl http://localhost:8080
<html>
<head><title>502 Bad Gateway</title></head>
<body bgcolor="white">
<center><h1>502 Bad Gateway</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx/1.14.2</center>
</body>

> </html>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
</html>

```

$ consul intention delete ingress webserver

> Intention deleted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Intention deleted.

```

$ curl http://localhost:8080
Welcome to nginx!
```

## Using the shell script

> 

Reviewer: Maybe add a sentence here that you can automate the process using the script in the repo.

Author: Added... `Included is a shell script that will extract the config files from this document and runs all the different services in multiple [GNU Screen][screen] windows. The script provides some basic instructions.`

I'm adding this to the intro-output of the script... ```To switch between the different screen windows type control-a then the number
0-4 (eg. 'ctrl-a 0' will take you to the first window, the web-server). When
done just exit each window (type 'exit' or ctrl-d), exiting the last will
exit screen.```
